title: web me.0
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/312/web-me0
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 312
created: 2007/03/23 21:38:01
created_gmt: 2007/03/23 21:38:01
comment_status: open
post_name: web-me0
status: publish
post_type: post

# web me.0

It is a shame when success is sullied by arrogance, as this video shows. But worth a look, just for the comedy value, especially the guy on the Segway. I am unsure whether the girl is seriously interviewing, or simply allowing them room to look foolish. I hope it's the latter, in which case she did very well. "Web 2.0 is so ooooover, it should be called web me.0!" The semantic web bore had a point, though obnoxiously delivered ...Social networking and content syndication explosion means there is many content duplications and a reliance on somoen produced the content originally. A more democratic web, but just a few steps. A lot of web 2.0 sites simply faded very quickly, after the initial enthusiasm for blogging and content mashups subsided, and the hardcore remain. Blogs are a good case in point, as most bloggers do not update content regularly. Or simply post a few articles, mashup some RSS feeds, then are left to disappear off the search engine scale. What web 2.0 has done, more than any other web movement, to get more people involved in contributing web content, and participation though social networking applications. Through new tools and technology, it created an opening for more people to get involved at a practical level, enabling users to control and contribute, without intrusion on said users. The upshot of the basic web 2.0 approaches to development and web presence has followed usability principles. If the technology isn't giving people what they want, it has to change. And it has. To dismiss web 2.0 as a style that can go in and out of fashion points to a defintiely psychological makeup of the big movers in web 2.0 and beyond. I suppose you do need a almost meglomaniac mindset to execute the ventures which have impressively grown in value at exponential rate. Also the same lack of realism that was the dotcom boom/bust. The core of web 2.0 is that it is a further move towards the semantic web. The very people that created the kudos and the buzzwords around it are now using those same terms to slate it. Semantic web cuts through the web 1.0 - 4.0 smokescreens of contradictions and double talk. This is what should remain at the forefront of the evolution. Sometimes I get caught up in the hype, and feel frustrated when I cant get the answers quickly, due to the level of fluff around a subject. Web 2.0 was a fluffball of buzzwords, and then some.