title: Agile - Flowery Words?
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/1616/agile-flowery-words
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 1616
created: 2009/01/10 20:08:56
created_gmt: 2009/01/10 20:08:56
comment_status: open
post_name: agile-flowery-words
status: publish
post_type: post

<!--Thanks to Agile (for all its benefits), testing has been thoroughly invaded by test consultants who use acronymns and terminology to build a shallow analysis or defence strategy.  In fact, being adept at this can mean test consultants can remain on projects for a long time, simply pandering to project management who always like the idea of a methodology, as it can appear on face of it, so solve a lot of problems. People are always the problem, not the methodology.-->

# Agile - Flowery Words?

Thanks to Agile (for all its benefits), testing has been thoroughly invaded by test consultants who use acronymns and terminology to build a shallow analysis or defence strategy.  In fact, being adept at this can mean test consultants can remain on projects for a long time, simply pandering to project management who always like the idea of a methodology, as it can appear on face of it, so solve a lot of problems. People are always the problem, not the methodology. Hiring an ISEB tester or Agile-skilled tester will not guarantee quality - the standards do, but only if they are applied with expertise. The BBC is a classic case in point, suffering for a few years with obsession of hiring ISEB testers, regardless of background. Not wishing to tar all in same continent with same brush, but the most useless testers in my experience are generally ISEB-qualified Africans, who adeptly took advantage of this hole in the market. This led to some comical hirings, with some testers who could barely write coherently, let alone perform any qulaity testing. Standards and methodologies are all very well, but very open to abuse. BBC had no-one but themselves to blame, but then they have always had a blind leading the blind policy in IT. Testing is a skill, it is not something an qualification gives you. You can pass ISEB by taking it a hundred times and learning parrot fashion from previous exams. Good testers come from different backgrounds in IT, and can bring that experience into testing. I have development and project management experience, which has added to my test skillset, as well as giving me communication skills with both technical and business parts of the project. I am also old and ugly enough to remember XP (Extreme Programming) in late 90's, spawned from open source development methods. The following years saw a stampede of hybrids, with many Agile "manifestos". Those who have been around longer than the web know projects have not changed that much - they are more rapid, require more regular engagement with releases from. The main issue with Agile is that it was largely designed by developers, who actually created this method so that project managers would leave them alone, and testers could be under some sort of development control. These are the parts I absolutely refute - development is a service to the project manager, testing is a service to the project manager to ensure the client (Product Owner) to ensure they get what they actually ask for. I did some QA work for a company that suffered from the negatives of Agile - i.e. Agile bullsh*t was used as a smokescreen by external supplier Ixxus to cover up the fact they hadn't a clue what they were building, and had no interest in finding out - they were waiting to leave, with as much money as they could get away with. Ixxus did it well by hiring two experts in the field, who proceeded to blind project and product managers with all the right kind of talk. Whilst the rest of us looked sadly on, and waited for the inevitable disaster. Does that hurt Ixxus?  Tough - play the conman, take the blog post. My approach? - I use experience - from success and failure, and aspire to provide companies with the best QA in terms of strategy and testing effort. Conning companies is not my business model, as I actually care about what passes through my QA-gate. Test Managers in general are harder to find these days - most sidestepped out completely or into other project roles. The role of the Test Manager has become the QA Manager, which is a larger remit beyond managing testing - managing releases, contributing to requirements, coordinating development team. [Scrummaster](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scrum_\(development\)) is in fact a re-badging of QA Manager, just my opinion but they are only so many ways to project manage, develop and test software.  Bizarrely, given the integration of the client/customer of a product, into Agile methodology, the client/customer always is most at risk of not being involved.