title: Agile Manifesto 2001
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/1618/1618
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 1618
created: 2009/01/10 20:45:49
created_gmt: 2009/01/10 20:45:49
comment_status: open
post_name: 1618
status: publish
post_type: post

# Agile Manifesto 2001

Looking back at the original Agile Manifesto, outlined in 2001,  it is very enlightening in hindsight ... 

> In order to succeed in the new economy, to move aggressively into the era of e-business, e-commerce, and the web, companies have to rid themselves of their Dilbert manifestations of make-work and arcane policies. This freedom from the inanities of corporate life attracts proponents of Agile Methodologies, and scares the begeebers (you can't use the word "shit" in a professional paper) out of traditionalists. Quite frankly, the Agile approaches scare corporate bureaucrats at least those that are happy pushing process for process sake versus trying to do the best for the "customer" and deliver something timely and tangible and "as promised" because they run out of places to hide. The Agile movement is not anti-methodology, in fact, many of us want to restore credibility to the word methodology. We want to restore a balance. We embrace modeling, but not in order to file some diagram in a dusty corporate repository. We embrace documentation, but not hundreds of pages of never-maintained and rarely-used tomes. We plan, but recognize the limits of planning in a turbulent environment. Those who would brand proponents of XP or SCRUM or any of the other Agile Methodologies as "hackers" are ignorant of both the methodologies and the original definition of the term hacker. http://agilemanifesto.org/history.html

Firstly "Agile approaches scare corporate bureaucrats" - the opposite is generally true now, but it doesnt mean they understand it!   As with the now maligned 2.0, it is suffering from the increasing **build-it-up-then-knock-it-down** tabloid approach.   Also it is very naive to think that a methodology can somehow change a corporation - bloated corporations will never be "Agile" - it is against the whole ethos of what a corporation is - a large company with no real responsibility or accountability anywhere, apart from the top of the tree - the place that isn't even involved. To be fair, Agile Manifesto has been subsequently revised, and this first effort looks childish - the above has obviously been written by a fairly bitter developer.   Mentioning the word "shit" in a blog post was no doubt shocking in 2001, but impresses me very little - and this is from the Agile originators! So lets take the 4 core aims of Agile, still applicable in today's version ... _Individuals and interactions over processes and tools_ Reality: Interaction has to happen across the board, and rarely does. _Customer collaboration over contract negotiation_ Reality: This is assuming too much about the customer - for example, what happens if the customer cannot or is not willing to be fully engaged in process ongoing, apart from the initial PID ([Project Initiation Document](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Project_Initiation_Document)).   That would lead to cries of where is the Project Manager (whose is primarily for passing the buck to on Agile projects, when things get complicated)?  Oh, we forgot, we diluted their role effectively to observer.   And unfortunately the Product Owner is also the client.  Oh dear. _Working software over comprehensive documentation_ QA Reality: Too little documentation, poor defect record maintenance, chaotic release management and shoddy release notes.  It is a turbulent time for web development, with harsh timescales, but poor record will ultimately come and bite you squarely on your behind. _Responding to change over following a plan_ Reality: See above two - it is only the first point that holds true, after the lessons learnt since 2001. Without the first, the other 3 will never happen. In  [Quintessence: The fifth element for the Agile Manifesto](http://blog.objectmentor.com/articles/2008/08/14/quintessence-the-fifth-element-for-the-agile-manifesto), Uncle Bob states a fifth rule, which to me plugs the previous gap - ironically in development. 

> _Craftsmanship over Execution_ Most software development teams execute, but they don't take care. We value execution, but we value craftsmanship more.

Agile effectively diluted the project and test managers role, instead of integrating these important roles. Development has an arrogance in approach of they-know-best. That arrogance is also good, as confidence in what you are building is important. But development do not understand business drivers outside of their own bubble, or more to the point, dont want to. This makes a joke of the manifesto, as the most common issue by far is development dictating direction too much, rather than the client requirements. Many of the [12 Agile Guidelines](http://agilemanifesto.org/principles.html) are reliant on competent project and development management and a client/customer that is regularly engaged in the process.  If anyone has been on a project with all these same time, please let me know!