title: Clients are paying you to think as well
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/5318/clients-are-paying-you-to-think-as-well
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 5318
created: 2011/12/21 10:51:33
created_gmt: 2011/12/21 10:51:33
comment_status: open
post_name: clients-are-paying-you-to-think-as-well
status: publish
post_type: post

# Clients are paying you to think as well

> **The phrase “The customer is always right” was originally coined by Harry Gordon Selfridge, the founder of Selfridge’s department store in London in 1909, and is typically used by businesses to: 1\. Convince customers that they will get good service at this company 2\. Convince employees to give customers good service**

"The customer is always right", that old adage from shopkeepers that has mistakenly permeated into every business (for customer, read client). In service industries, this approach has ironically been deprioritized. In IT, the first is observed more than the second. There is a lot of room for manoeuvre on subject of requirements, as although the client may have their vision correct, when it comes to granularity of user stories/requirements, there is a LOT of room for client error. It is not intended to be patronising - how could anyone with limited experience of inner workings of an IT project possibly hope to convey everything they want from the outset, and understand technical impacts. The pressure on clients to get the requirements right at this stage is big - any errors made at this stage can be costly to be put right. Agile encourages client involvement, but I rarely see it happen to a healthy degree. And we can blame several factors. Transparency - inability of project team to properly convey progress and caveats, without having to consider perception. Whilst many business people harp on about transparency, no-one wants to hear about problem, or changes to plan. If FEELS risky - that is in capitals because it is an illusion. Providing clients with plans based on milestones is unrealistic, and always has been. It is simply pandering to business ideas of risk, that simply don't match IT projects. IT projects are all about managed risk, and using processes to minimise risk. You can hope that your milestones are achieved but you can't guarantee them. Development process - Agile software development recommends implementing smaller features, and build/integrate/test in shorter cycles. In this case, the Sprint has sadly replaced the release concept. Even if a development team is working Agile, they will be under the same pressures to deliver as a Waterfall project. The Sprint is sensibly division of work to be done, but these are too often taken as milestones, instead of part of the continuum of Agile development. I am firmly convinced this is why Scrum was the most popular of Agile methodologies - because of the incorrect perception it has something akin to Waterfall approach (for "Sprint", read "Release"). Communication - Part of challenge in IT is developing ways to have a common language, so why not make it part of whole project process? I have been researching into domain-specific modelling (using DSLs), which is bringing requirements and code closer together. Wherever there is transition point, there is a weakness in the chain. So where there are no tools or frameworks to help development and testing process, you better make sure the communication is frequent and fluid. The client needs to be involved, and have transparency - and this needs to be firmly managed, to avoid unnecessary hysteria when problems do arise. Agile can easily become Waterfall in sheep-clothing - and it is unhealthily common. In order for the client to become "Agile", then the business providing the product to the client should become "Agile". This particular road is a long and bumpy one. Justifying Agile is a difficult exercise, as all you can really sell is quality of development process. But by saying that, you are implying previous development wasn't good enough; that something was wrong.The Product Owner should never agree to a requirement change without consensus with Scrummaster and the team. Review is an imperative part of Agile, and by engaging the client in that process, at least they can feel they are being taken seriously.