title: Agile is not a replacement for thinking
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/4601/agile-is-not-a-replacement-for-thinking
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 4601
created: 2011/10/07 12:08:55
created_gmt: 2011/10/07 12:08:55
comment_status: open
post_name: agile-is-not-a-replacement-for-thinking
status: publish
post_type: post

# Agile is not a replacement for thinking

Why do I hate Agile? The same way I am irrationally hate Microsoft and Apple? Well, close, but my mentality is a little more culture-based. My resentment of Microsoft is largely down to the abominable software. Apple may do it in a slicker and prettier way but the same proprietary software hell-hole as Microsoft. Regards Agile ... I am English, so by default root for the underdog. I was drawn to Linux because this was first case I had seen of opensource in action. Software designed with passion rather than for demand. Technically brilliant, usability flawed - but still improving. Agile is in same bracket for me - a group of people deciding to do things in a better way, and challenging previous methods of doing things. And much maligned and misunderstood. I can only talk from UK perspective of course, but Agile's arrival signalled a wave of buzzword frenzy around the subject - it had perfect soundbites for its unofficial salesmen. Agile wasn't sold to us - we adopted it. It is easily sold as it not dictatorial, and focussed around the importance of the team, and the processes behind it. It made sense to people. But then did it. In principle, in diagrams, in sound-bites it sound clear and logical. I mean, who could argue with more stakeholder involvement, more communication, organised sprints, adaptive planning, rapid development. No-one - but as with any method, its in the application. And mostly its in the team itself. More communication, people can manage - but its needs structure, it doesn't happen organically; human beings slip. First major, and I mean major, booboo was Agile weakened the project manager role. There was a thorough misunderstanding of project management in Agile, and in earliers days it was less clear, as Agile Management evolved a little later than the original Agile definitions. Project managers still existed on Agile projects, but generally less powerful. Power had shifted too far to development, which meant those outside the core SDLC were looking in rather than involved. Over time this weakness was realised - and Agile was blamed. Why, I do not understand - people made assumptions, followed, realised error, then blamed Agile for putting them there to start with. So SCRUM become more prominent, with its clearer focus on the management side. Again clear diagrams, simple explanations, how could you go wrong? Well, just bacuase you fill the roles, it doesnt make the process magically work. Waterfall has been slated so much, its become some kind of pariah - Agile is evolution not replacement. Now people are paying the price for that arrogance, and treating Agile the same way. A CEO at a Startup I was comntracted at last year, whined to me one day "the process isnt working, you are supposed to be managing this!". "How do you mean, its not working?", I replied. "It just isn't working!". "So what is missing for you? All the issues and tasks are in there, assigned to Sprints". Of course, silence. Because he didnt know the first thing about having a project process, he was used to people just jumping when he complained. He liked the idea of SCRUM, but in hindsight, he expected it to mean he didn't have make effort in the process. He was effectively the stakeholder, but behaved like a cavalier project manager. And let the largely weak development team do what they liked (who struggled with such lofty concepts as source/change control - but I dont expect much from flash/flex developers). The CEO was also expecting someone to wipe his proverbial rear as he lumbered along.