title: Blame it on Agile
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/5500/blame-it-on-agile
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 5500
created: 2011/12/29 14:25:21
created_gmt: 2011/12/29 14:25:21
comment_status: open
post_name: blame-it-on-agile
status: publish
post_type: post

# Blame it on Agile

Waterfall vs Agile? Unnecessary. Waterfall’s defined stages allow for thorough planning, especially for logical design, implementation and deployment. Agile methodology is a sound choice for development. Agile management processes are still being devised - it was all very well accusing business of not being Agile, but they hadn't been provided with any kind of Agile framework on which to base any changes on. In the early Agile days at least. Hence the inevitable pairing of the two methodologies on many projects; and still very common.  To get our of the Waterfall mindset, you have to change the way you look at things. 

> **Waterfall = **Get requirements -> Design the solution -> Develop the solution -> Test ** Agile = **Identify what client wants -> Build a small piece, ensuring it functions -> Involve client to see how to make it better -> Continue until user is happy

Which looks a better method to you? Of course this is all easy to say in an article, as the complexity is around business buy-in, agile implementation and management, resources and skills available. Now it doesn't seem quite so simple. As I prepare for the waterfall-style testing approaching, I am going through a nostalgia for the times when we had luxury to plan to the nth degree. This time was also spent gearing up for the inevitable testing cycle, as more is generally implemented in a Waterfall release. This increases risks, hence why test cycles in the olden days were longer, as they had to be. Although my general view is that Agile is only part-implemented (with Sprints taking the place of releases), at least there is a general assumtpion that "stuff" needs to happen daily. In ideal world this would be a daily continuous build/integration/test cycle, which may or may not necessitate services of a tester. But if testing has implemented a good Acceptance Testing Framework, then developers and testers can test in parallel or seperately. In Waterfall, the onus is on developer to ensure they are unit testing. Here is where I feel that development can operate Agile, with Waterfall framework. There is nothing in the rules that says you cannot do a release prior to official release cycle delivery dates. There is also nothing in the rules to say that testers cannot test on these interim releases. Where it falls down in Waterfall is at project management end, which cannot be this flexible. In Waterfall requirements revisits and re-organising deliverables prior to release test acceptance (which can lead to costly changes for the client). This is the business behaving as if everything is going to plan - in that development cycle window, many things can go wrong and unnoticed until final integration into a release. This is part of what Agile tried to address - minimising development risk with more frequent testable iterations. Business still fails to see the advantage of this, but why? Business doesnt move at same pace as IT development, and it is only newer industries that attempted to fully embrace Agile. We are still stuck playing a game essentially - maintaining agile development, at the same time as pandering to business desire for fixed checkpoints/milestones. It's a shame, because the divide isn't that big, and is totally illogical. Battles between business and technical have always been commonplace, and in a way necessary to ensure the right balance is attained. We have all seen the disasters that can unfold when projects are driven by senior management or marketing departments. Our view in IT has to be broader than individual neurosis of client-focussed stakeholders. That's why you need a healthy Product Owner/Scrummaster pairing. While I find it a pleasant change to be able to focus on test plans, scripts and automation, I also feel a strange sensation that my hands are tied as much as the business is. I am waiting, crossing my fingers - I see Agile and Waterfall akin to rollercoaster and walzter. Agile the rollercoaster is a controlled chaos, intermittent paths of slow and fast, occasionally thrown upside down. Waterfall the waltzer, complete with equivalent of sniggering hillbilly, delighting on sending you round in circles with ever-increasing intensity. I was never anti-Waterfall - I slid into Agile projects starting in 2001 with no real assumptions around it. I saw, and still see, the same fundamental software engineering principles. A lot of the Agile methodologies are focussed at taking sound software engineering principles and incorporating more business-focus. The Agile vs Waterfall battle has calmed down considerably, and largely because people now udnerstand better that Agile is a framework upon which to build a methodology that best suits your company/project. To simply say "Agile doesn't work" then return to Waterfall is missing the point by a large margin. What you should ask yourself is has it failed on business or development level? Could eb either or a bit of both or simply inability to process changes that Agile recommends. People can fight the tide, but Agile is built upon sound development principles some of which are decades old. It didn't drop out of the sky one day, it's an evolution attempting to learn from mistakes of the past. It appears that business is still struggling to learn that lesson.