title: KISS
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/4582/kiss
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 4582
created: 2011/10/05 12:56:37
created_gmt: 2011/10/05 12:56:37
comment_status: open
post_name: kiss
status: publish
post_type: post

# KISS

I hear and use the phrase "keep it simple" a lot. Yet struggle to follow my own advice. In dissecting Agile, I get lost quickly in various (relevant) tangents, but ultimately the same problems in testing remain. Agile fails to properly specify the role and benefit of a tester, demoted to a developer add-on. And as a lot of developers fail to properly unti test, the tester can quickly become a unit tester. Since when did a developer need a PA? Unit testing is a given, regardless of methodology. My first instruction in testing 16 ago, was to:- 1\. Using requirements document, outline test cases from it. 2\. Cross-reference requirement to test case 3\. Expand test cases in test script(s) 3\. Review test cases every release (for amendments or additions) 5\. Always regression test with every release (remember this was waterfall era!). 6\. Document every issue 7\. Document every release test. Fast forward 16 years and this approach is still very valid, and adaptable for Agile or any methodology you care to mention. Testers are within the SDLC, but also tracking progress at requirements level. That requires a degree of distance from the daily world of development. The UK is sorely lagging behind in Agile evolvement, caught up in the same mess that started a decade ago.