title: Collective Disresponsibility
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/5679/collective-disresponsibility
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 5679
created: 2012/01/06 13:12:51
created_gmt: 2012/01/06 13:12:51
comment_status: open
post_name: collective-disresponsibility
status: publish
post_type: post

# Collective Disresponsibility

There is a risk in adopting Agile, that is an historical issue not even related to Agile.  The bigger a company is, the better they can suck up failure.  And in a huge company, 1 project pass/fail is neither here nor there in grand scheme of things.   With Waterfall (step-down) methodology, these types of failures would happen "gracefully", due to the lumbering nature of the roadmap, and lack of visibility of progress until release points.  In the larger companies, on Agile projects, something strange happens ...  Agile is all about communication, transparency and the review/improve philosophy (in both business and development processes).  If a project is failing in Agile, masking it is a hard job, unless all are complicit in the cover-up.  This is not to say it's  a calculated deception, more borne out of desperate hope somehow they can make the project work.  This makes for the most opaque and confusing project you have ever seen.  Too much information will lead to public display of project cracks and elastoplast.  It is too easy to make a good picture from front-end that in no way illustrates the nightmares occurring beneath.  You can end up in painful circles of testing, and ultimately end up running full regression tests because you plain don't trust the output. How long this smokescreen lasts is almost measurable against company size.  When there are thousands of workers, and layers of management you end up with what [Humphrey Appleby](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Humphrey_Appleby)* would call "collective disresponsibility" - no-one is truly accountable.  A failure is collective company effort, and a success is up for grabs.  Hmmm, a little cynical, but there are more elements of gameplaying - again proportionately to how large a company is. If no-one is truly accountable, then what happens with failure.  Well, hopefully there will be a lesson learnt, and not to be repeated.  Worse scenario, a scapegoat will be identified (someone relevant but not directly responsible).  This kind of behaviour is dying out, but still exists in the more "crusty" corporations.  The other thing that can happen with failure is that someone swoops in to "save the day". There are people on the sidelines just waiting for an Agile project to fail, and the reason why is that businesses are very sold on the idea of blaming process (industrial tribunals can be expensive), over individuals.  So by replacing the process, it sets the project off on another track.  Where that track is going is neither here nor there, what's important to the business is that the project is in motion, in a different way. Agile, applied correctly, could work wonders to improve this archaic corporate culture - fostering culture of openness and encouraging people to put their hands up when there are problems, so they can be reviewed and solved.  This naturally threatens a middle-management layer, so I am not expecting change quickly.  But it can be done. *[Play Yes, Prime Minister ZX Spectrum game online](http://redfishbluefish.co.uk/2012/01/07/yes-prime-minister-3/)