title: SDD
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/7128/sdd
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 7128
created: 2012/05/15 15:32:34
created_gmt: 2012/05/15 15:32:34
comment_status: open
post_name: sdd
status: publish
post_type: post

# SDD

> You can't count on the customer to know what they want, so there needs to be a regulation mechanism that Matt Cottingham calls "Sales Driven Development" ... [Sales Driven Development](http://agile.dzone.com/articles/sales-driven-development)

With Agile, came wholesale criticsm of traditonal "milestones" - but what should be in it's place? After all, a client expects to know some kind of time window for delivery.  Working in Sprints is all very well, but whether you like it or not, each Sprint is a milestone, as far the business is concerned.  They are not concerned with the inner working of Agile, simply output.  If the reporting and progress is poor, the first thing they will blame is this "new-fangled" way of working.  We all need milestones of some kind - forget all the flowery speak out there - there's a client with money, who wants a product and some indication of delivery time. Caution should be applied though - unrealistic milestones can put pressure on the project team too early.   Allowing sales to drive project schedules is fatal, given modern short-sighted sales approach. The business has to make a deadline of some kind, otherwise how will the client know when the product is ready?  How can project management effectively plan? Many methodologies assume a continuum - after all, it is not something you can specify across the board with a methodology.   There is onus of competency of management to apply these processes in sensible way, rather than simply using them to leverage their own individual positions. We are still in an old place, where sales can drive projects simply by agreeing unrealistic terms and dates with clients, without consultation with project team.  Sales are part of the project team, but are rarely embraced in such a way.  Ultimately it is not the fault of sales, but the business for not factoring them in to the project.  They are part of the project team, and should be treated as such.  Armed with all the right information, maybe the ridiculous timescales and deadlines can be avoided.