title: Part of the team
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/5618/part-of-the-team
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 5618
created: 2012/01/03 18:45:40
created_gmt: 2012/01/03 18:45:40
comment_status: open
post_name: part-of-the-team
status: publish
post_type: post

# Part of the team

I sometimes take what is called a [busman's holiday](http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/busman's_holiday) \- which in contracting terms means work away from the management side, and more in actual testing activity. This is valuable for me, as it keeps my skills fresh (and good for company as they get a more experienced tester). It also allows me to see the project from a different angle, to put myself outside of a comfort zone into more direct dealings with other testers and developers.  This is never as a planned excursion, and it generally follows my life pattern. Having kids is a major (but delightful) drainer, and at both times I naturally gravitated to less of a "politics" role, and more actual practical work. It does seem an odd way round, but in fact "politics" is the most stressful area of IT projects.  By working on the front-line,  and viewing projects at a different angle, I more easily see mistakes made in process. And what I also notice is generally people won't take advice until the way they are working, becomes completely unworkable. Am I like that? I pondered. In management roles, the processes we define and manage also define us to other people.  If a process isn't working, then all of a sudden people will instantly attach a name to that process.  It's Agile, it isn't "Dave's process" - but it's "Dave's process" when it goes wrong.  The build 'em up, then knock 'em down mentality goes beyond the tabloids.  It is amazing that even on a small Scrum team, just taking a different role can change someone's whole attitude.  How can any methodology or process deal with these chasms?  Well, Agile does broadly by it's focus on review/improvement, communication and  transparency.  But these are very broad guides, and what is needed is that these principles are applied according not only to the company, but individual project teams. I came to conclusion last week I haven't really registered much going on in my own field of QA and testing over the years.   I felt development and agile management was more logical focus, and especially currently, as changes in development process are key to the next step in methodologies-in-their-time - Lean.  I tend to gravitate towards people in development, and have always done so. There is definitely a reason for this. Although I know the importance of QA in delivery of quality software, I believed and still do, is that too much is made of actual process. Devising process is quick and short - once outlined it's there, and up for continual review and change. That is the simple part - a simple process with devices to allow for reviews/improvements. That isn't the challenge, it's people. And none more so than developers, and I mean that in a non-derogatory fashion. When something goes amiss in development process, don't expect guaranteed report of problem.  There will be a lot of internal grumbling, and smoke 'n mirrors, before cracks become apparent to all.  This is not down to developer dishonesty, down to their belief they can get it right - and you don't want to be crushing that passion.  But it's way too easy to do.  But there is a business to run ... Pressures of being a developer can be high (but mostly unseen).  If you don't foster a transparency-led project, then immediately you will start to see evidence of subterfuge and evasiveness.  Whatever you tell someone, they will instinctively not want to fail, or if failing, do not want to appear to fail.  So just re-badge failure.  As failure is a common occurrence in an area that is built on constant learning and evolving process (i.e. every programming language).  So it's not a fail, it's a learning point.  And encourage people to report issues early (even if they feel they are already on top of solution) - it is important the team are up to speed with peoples work, as they may have valid input to give. My grandmother told me very early on the most important part of making mistakes is learning from them.  Was that supposed to stop when we grow up?  Seems to me it becomes more important than ever. Managers I can deal with - I don't need to have sensitivity with people at a level where they have power to severely damage a project.  I am disinterested in individual management neurosis.  Developers are a different bunch - widely differing in outward persona, and largely creative mindset.  Foster a good development team, and you will find the methodology is almost inconsequential, as methodologies are based around sound software engineering practices that good developers are naturally aware of.