title: Polarization
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/6592/polarization
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 6592
created: 2012/02/28 21:47:43
created_gmt: 2012/02/28 21:47:43
comment_status: open
post_name: polarization
status: publish
post_type: post

# Polarization

> ... when anyone happens to cite a failed experience with Agile, the explanation from Agilists is invariably the cryptic "you weren't doing it right" [Agile, the Good Parts](http://caines.ca/blog/programming/agile-the-good-parts/)

When we are younger, it's easy to assume we are thinking of new things - talking with some developers and testers, you would think software development only started in 2000. The evolution of testing followed similar path to development - how could it not? Testing suffered because a whole host of companies and projects sprung up, with very different and sometimes non-existant budget contraints. Testing, as at any time in software history,  is a first target to either cut budget or time. And as these new companies and projects were flying under the Agile banner by default, the wrong message was sent out.  Testing is something anyone could do, a good developer doesn't need their code tested, etc.  meanwhile the poor old client was bemused at what was going on in this strangely opaque methodology, where the project team seemed to be very selective when the project was transparent or not The Agile manifesto was a polarization point for development and testing. But it also became a lazy umbrella that included methodologies that actually predate it's definition in 2001(Extreme Programming and Scrum are good examples). This doesn't help people when it comes to understanding how to apply Agile to their processes. It created clarity And confusion is testing world, as we were not used to having specific approaches to testing, as it was generally driven by the overall project methodology imposed. In order for any change of process to work, all have to buy into them, and adopt them in their working practices. How many times have you seen an Agile role assigned to someone, but with no instruction? Too many times. Some sensible people treated Agile as an opportunity to define their own processes - both accidentally and by design. Hence we ended up with a lot of Agile sub-methodologies, with slight variances and focusses and rewording. Sound principles are easy to find, but are rarely collated together in sound pragmatic processes - that's our job, based on company and project. It was never the job of Agile to be a user guide to project management and development. Testing lagged behind for many years, deprioritised and flooded with would-be testers anxious to join the perceived gravy-train. Testing reduced to task-level status, given perceived absence of need for specialised resource. Some need to follow, some need to find their own way (the former has many more than the latter). Although I see the benefits and positives of these different Agile testing approaches (important to remember testing approach has heavy dependency on development methodology), they are reiterating the same common sense. A lot of testing consultancies claim to have an Agile methodology of their own, which is a little strange. When you dig a little deeper you will find nothing radical or revolutionary in their approach.  It's simply using Agile as a marketing tool. In position of testing consultancy, it is important to be adaptable and at the same time, make recommendations for change, where appropropriate. Of course we should always ensure work done is relevant to end client requirements. A bit of the self-help books out there - the author(s) didn't need the guidance, they forged their own paths. And the idea they can pass what they know and understand onto others is going to be a mixed-bag of success. This is about the point we lose that "people over processes" part of Agile. Great care is needed to avoid scenario of having good processes and no good people. I never tire of having your preconceptions challenged - I always find it a pleasant surprise, not annoyance. Technology can sometimes become a magical thing, that works as result of unusual methods, that nevertheless, get the job done. Wade through the principles of these modern Agile development methods and you will find common elements.  Most Agile principles are well-articulated no brainers, but complication comes with implementation.  People protecting their corners will naturally find ways to protect their positions, given the way business still view perceived failure.  And a common way is to blame process, a non-human culprit for problems.   Business still is a big impediment to true change in development world. We can all write what we think Agile is about, and maybe that's not a bad idea.  Maybe we all quote too much.  Below are the overall Agile philosophies I believe are important to apply (in context of world of web application and mobile development) 1\. Work in progress (WIP) should always be traceable to client requirements. 2\. Good balance of processes and tools 3\. Whether at unit or UI level, complete test automation 4\. Knowledge sharing (using cross-functional individuals/teams) 5\. Adopt continual review/improve cycle in code and in process. 6\. Iterative and Incremental approach, in planning as well as coding (and ideally Continuous Integration!) 7\. Other type of testing should be considered from outset: load, performance, accessibility, usability and coding standards (the last three should be factored into the development process). You probably noticed I didn't include anything about project team - you can't define the perfect team structure, simple as that.  Good projects don't necessarily fit predefined notions of resources, as long as the roles as observed. So are there too many methodologies around that say the same thing? Well ... yes and no - the way a process is defined is extremely important, as all have their own specific goal to focus on. For example, BDD is ideal for re-factoring projects, where the main driver is adding new features, therefore the biggest risk are going to be integration issues. But it's of little use on it's own - processes have to be managed somehow. So applying Kanban with BDD creates an even tighter framework to operate in, with flexible rule-based planning methods. Agile is a broad field, and off-putting to many. Whereas concepts like context-driven, test-driven, behaviour-driven, feature-driven are easier to digest for someone not used to methodologies. Having specific sub-methodologies makes a lot of sense as majority of projects cannot incorporate fuller Agile scope (either because of budget, time or resources constraints). And demonstrates the possibility of Agile being customised more freely. There is no one way.