title: I've fallen, and I can't get up
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/6138/ive-fallen-and-i-cant-get-up
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 6138
created: 2012/02/02 12:10:19
created_gmt: 2012/02/02 12:10:19
comment_status: open
post_name: ive-fallen-and-i-cant-get-up
status: publish
post_type: post

# I've fallen, and I can't get up

In so many interviews I have heard that a company is working Agile, accompanied by either hollow laugh or slight look of embarrassment. No finger-pointing is necessary, as the way things were did have to change. And the rough ride that Agile took most people is just an unfortunate stepping stone, in hindsight. Without attention to real agile development or, at the other end of the process, without engaging to client fully in the project management process, you will have a hard time having a successful Agile projects. Of course there are success stories, but usually a result from a lot of learning rather than following a guidebook.  But projects still get done, even is bad setups, especially if you have some skilled members in the project - projects can succeed by the momentum created by individuals. A good developer and a good product owner/project manager can basically take the helm under any conditions, and still deliver. So why not make it even easier to utilise their skills to the full, instead of just compensating for weaknesses? That's when these methodologies come in, and they start making sense - putting the skilled people in the right place, under the right conditions. It's the conditions that require thought and research, and no sense in throwing out something that works in rush to change. Maybe Agile (as in the name, not the principles behind it) has been hurt too much to ever recover. When comparisons are drawn to other methods, Agile is generally described as "unstructured", and often included in same breath as "chaos". Right there, you have a missell - how can any methodology be unstructured. A decade of learning later, and it seems as though to same perceptions are prevalent. So maybe it's time to stop ourselves referring to Agile, and be more specific. If a business wants to change the way it works, so that software is completed on time, to requirements and code is of good quality, there are a number of ways to acheive this without "going Agile". There is no point simply making bold statements, then expecting various projects to self-organise themselves in Agile way, without overall company definition of processes. And to turn round and simply blame that pesky Agile thing, is simply laziness in the extreme. Methodologies are no excuse to let things happen "organically" (chaotically) - they wont - Agile processes assume levels of skill and understanding. It doesn't magically make your team more competent. Agile owes many things to other previous methodologies, processes and techniques underpinned by overriding philosophy. Agile processes include Crystal, Dynamic Systems Development Methodology (DSDM), Feature Driven Development (FDD), Behavior Driven Development (BDD). It never claimed to reinvent the wheel, it was an attempt to improve the process of delivering quality software, by means of high-level guidelines. The "sub-methodologies" covered more granular aspects. What came too late was definitions around project management. In the meantime, Scrum has become firmly entrenched as THE Agilest project management approach (even though it predates Agile). In fact, that's all that most took on from the Agile umbrella. Scrum has evolved itself, from orginal definition, but it would be more abnormal if it hadn't. Taking the continual review/improve process, this is appropriate. Scrum was only intended as a framework, not a user guide, and the fact it's high level definition changes is only natural. It's no longer promoted as methodology, more of a framework (which is more accurate, in hindsight). Rather than thinking "Lets go Agile!", there are two distinct sides of a project to examine - how you manage the project and how the development process works. While the two are not mutually exclusive, they do have their own audience. The project management side is what's visible to the business, the engine into which to feed requirements and source of reports/progress updates. The key to any approach to project management is to understand that individuals are the ultimate source of value, and that shared responsibility is essential for team effectiveness. There can't be any single process for all situations, so it makes sense to develop multiple strategies, processes and practices for different situations. These are not intended for one project, this is assuming you are overhauling, company-wide. The other side is managing development work. The development process should be the easier out of the two to devise, as there are less politics to deal with. Follow a solid continuous integration style of development, backed up with either Scrum or Kanban project management (both are given given to incremental development, but Kanban far more flexible). The key for development is to work in balanced and optimal fashion, with utilization of cross-functional teams (or individuals). For both these sides, the most important part is to MAKE THE RULES. It irritates me when peoplke assume Agile has no formaility. The rules are not specified in Agile, simply outlining the rules that need to be made. Never follow methodologies blindly, as they have to be learnt. And don't assume you have to drop the processes you currently have - just work out what doesn't work, or what needs improvement. Perhaps now we all need to be careful when talking about methodologies, because there is enough choice out there to amalgamate your own processes. Iterative and incremental development is a sensible approach across the board, and there is absolutely no reason this can't be applied to the whole project. Waterfall was never the problem, Waterfall became symbolic for the "old ways" -the problem for modern development was with the step-down approach to development. Waterfall can also operate using Iterative and Incremental development approach, but it was rarely considered as a possibility. Business going Agile never really happened, and the way business operates within IT projects also has to change too. We are still playing too many games around perception, that panders to business expectations.