title: Scrum Case Study
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/6470/scrum1-2
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 6470
created: 2012/06/15 07:43:18
created_gmt: 2012/06/15 07:43:18
comment_status: open
post_name: scrum1-2
status: publish
post_type: post

# Scrum Case Study

In the most perfect of methodology application, there is always room for improvement. To assume otherwise is misguided over-confidence. Take Scrum, the most used (and abused) of the modern methodologies. The principle, as always is simple - better project management and more control over requirements. It requires more future planning, consitent review pattern, and following through to the development process. It is no good having good project management, if the development teams are not following through with code. The project was a middleware service providing Always-On email system. Though common now, this was in 2005 so the concept of a true mobile LAN email service was relatively new. The first action was devising a test strategy, which defines the high-level testing scope and testing cycles. Though a middleware service, it still has to be verified for the input and output, i.e. email sent, delivery and verification of content. The company had adopted a system of using real phones and emulators to test email content and user experience. The focus of our testing was on the core application and database, which would pontentially servic a high level of traffic. The project was working with an efficient Scrum management and Continuous integration process. They were very competent developers and the architectural team also very skilled. But what comes with these talents is overlooking chances for improvements. The end-user experience was paramount in gauging success of the middleware. End to end testing was the most efficient and useful method of testing. I am not there to pointlessly increase scope of testing for financial gain. Consultancy should have morals. What I needed to add to ensure a controlled QA gate for releases, was a test environment, and test framework to provide the external and better overview that QA can provide. The problem I identified to begin with is that they were working in solely Incremental fashion, when Iterative AND Incremental is a better approach to deliver to requirement. People may now at the mention of "milestones", but when else is a client going to get what they want? For the essential load testing I chose STAF, an open source load testing framework, driven by xml-based user profiles. This was perfect, as user profiling was very appropriate for email users. The advantage of using open source tools is they act as a kcik-start to what you are actually looking for. Rather than letting the tool dictate what you test and how your test. It some work to get it up to the standard you want, but ultimately more useful and can be included in development cycle. Developers will find them useful also, and more likely to gravitate to open source, over bespoke commercial products.