title: Kanban, the new Scrum? Please, no ...
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/5759/kanban-the-new-scrum-please-no
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 5759
created: 2012/01/10 18:08:50
created_gmt: 2012/01/10 18:08:50
comment_status: open
post_name: kanban-the-new-scrum-please-no
status: publish
post_type: post

# Kanban, the new Scrum? Please, no ...

It's a jokey title of course, pandering, as I am, to people's general need to label new things in such a way as they appear exciting, before anyone actually understand them.  The "build them up, knock them down" tabloid mentality to celebrities has permeated into many other areas, unfortunately. Development isn't a fashion - but it is often debated in such a way.  Agile was the first time development methodology had appeared interested - people loved the references to creativity, speed, even the language.  Agile was the magic fairy dust you could sprinkle over your project, and produce masterpieces. Software engineering principles had taken a nosedive since late 1990's, with increase in developers on the back of development tools and languages, that made development easier.  Whether you develop in Flex, Java or PHP, sound principles and complete understanding on what they are coding.  What is the use of a developer using jQuery library to produce am accordion for a website, if when testing finds problems, they are unable to diagnose or fix, due to their lack of understanding on the libraries they are using. I am enjoying the Agile wave but it seems no sooner than we are getting to grips with such lofty concepts as "transparency", "communication", "continual review and improvement", than in comes Lean development.  Lean arrived pretty much in same style Agile did, focussing on development efficiency - and it will take a while before the management side catches up.   Lean poo-poos ideas of  fixed Sprints (which, let's face it, were pandering to the old-school business mentality).   As the business took a lot longer to understand the benefits of Agile, but enjoyed embracing the lingo into business-speak,  Scrum became the most popular route to Agile adoption.  This is because it appeared, on the face of it, to be a more rapid version of Waterfall development.  So on marched Scrum ... What business missed for quite a while in Agile, was it was focussed of delivering more quality in code, and less risk in overall process. Meanwhile development could be agile, but probably wasn't.   I have rarely see evidence of the continuous build, integration and test mentality fully permeating the development world.   This is core to making Agile work for you - building in small rapid increments, and maintaining WORKING software.   Why Agile became of dirty word is largely because of the realisation that simply adopting Agile in project management wasn't enough.  In fact, it didn't really change anything, if development wasn't working Agile.  We were still left with the same Waterfall "surprises".   Sprints were commonly 2-4 weeks, which is not far off the release schedule of old (usually a month).  So if development is not following the  Agile ethos, your Agile management is close on worthless.  Good project management is not something Agile was focused on - it was development management. Lean isn't new - it is re-enforcing what should have been applied with Agile, but this time, not pampering to business weaknesses.  If you adopt Lean, you better be fully with the program, and not just adopting the language.  The concepts of fixed Sprints was simply to mask Agile reality - every day is different, every day plans can change, every day new problems/requests could occur.  Business thinks it needs milestones in order to plan, guage risk, and manage client expectations.  Why?  yes, why?  Wouldn't a client be more enthused to be involved with the process, be able to demo their software at any time, feel free to voice concerns at any point.  Yes, there has to be a deadline, a delivery date.  So why not take that date, and plan accordingly. Agile development encourages development of smaller features, and integrate/test more regularly - that minimises development risk (and so, business risk).  Agile development was intended to be Lean already. If business AND development changed their attitudes, they would realise the same.  The conflicts arise purely because business is struggling to change as fast as development.   Agile became about managing business expectations, at the same time as trying to work in Agile fashion.  And as the majority of developers do not work in Agile fashion, it became clear case of the blind leading the blind on many projects.  A side issue maybe, but a lot of developers are not coding in efficient or good process - software can be produced by bad and good coding, though there are differing variable in quality/cost.  Outside of "the team", quality issues won't be necessarily visible to either business or client.  Anyone who has worked on refactoring projects (Brownfield) will tell you that. [youtube]http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LejHPwrqGvE[/youtube] Kanban originated in the 80', and as with Scrum, was aimed as general purpose efficiency in manufacturing industries.  The concepts around around delivering ever-improving products to the customers (clients), minimising costs and time, and improving quality.  It's about a constant review/improve process, so it is easy to see why it is so given to programming, which has a whole evolution based of the same principles of review/improve.  But what works easier in manufacturing, is harder in the IT business world, which has made a career out of client subterfuge, and shortcuts to deliver software on time.  Whereas a factory churning out cars, can't afford to cuts corners, or mask problems in their vehicles, IT projects can be a business success measured almost by the level of business "cleverness".   What manufacturing would see as a lesson well learnt, business would see as a failure.  And we all know how business hates the word "failure". What business has a problem with is reality - their concept of risk is purely about time - how much time can be got away with, and mostly importantly, with good perception.  This attitude means a project can actually be on the wrong track, but make the business happy.  The transparency element of Agile eluded business for quite a while.  That is main reason business gravitated towards Scrum, as it was easier for to conceptualise,  in current business thinking.  i.e. they got Agile  wrong.  So the whole exercise for development became about managing internal business expectations of Agile, in such a way that the business could feel comfortable and accommodated.  Hold on, doesn't this seem like inefficiency - why should development feel the need to play the same games as business commonly do with their clients? 

> “What?  You wanted the results to display?  On the screen?  That’s gonna be hard.” Translation:  _Here’s a good place to bury all the slippage.  Major schedule revision coming._

It is frustrating how poorly implemented Agile can bloat a project, and create processes that are simply a sell-job.  Developers may nod to Agile, even take up some tools that purport to help the Agile process, but Agile development is at the core of Agile methodologies.  If you don't have that, you have no foundation to your Agile project.   Couple that with weak Agile management, then you have a project on route for a train crash.  And depending on your company culture, will dictate how long the illusion last before it crashes down around you.  We can make the same mistake with Lean and Kanban.  Or we can learnt from the mistakes of before and review/improve - why does business find that concept so hard is beyond me.  At this point, surely business gets what Agile is doing, how much better quality emerges, how much less risk there is, and by engaging clients in the process.