title: Facebook
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/7556/facebook
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 7556
created: 2012/09/25 14:40:12
created_gmt: 2012/09/25 14:40:12
comment_status: open
post_name: facebook
status: publish
post_type: post

# Facebook

Facebook - the last bastion of web 2.0, with its heavy dependence on user-generated content, and widescale abuse of users' data.  I signed up in 2006, and vaguely prodded it from time to time. When my daughter was born I found a new use for it, sharing photos/videos with friends and family. Which I believe was the original inspiration for the Facebook creators. But after 6 years, I still don't get it. And now I know why - it took user-generated content to a new level.  And why should I be putting so much effort into a social networking site? What is the point?  There is no point. We all have mobiles, and people make more calls than ever at all times.  But overhear most mobile conversations (and not by choice, believe me), and they are utterly inane.  We have created a need, by using the technology available regardless of thought for how useful it actually is. Listen to any Apple fiend, and aside from being bored to tears, and slightly concern over the strange looks they give their devices, sometimes with accompanying stroke - you realise how shallow we can look, and actually how dumb.  Apple or Samsung bring out the latest upgraded tablet - souped-up processor, a sprinkling of RAM, leaner meaner case, and it becomes a thing of desire. It's hardware in a pretty package.  And Facebook. It's web 2.0 - with a pretty package. My online social networking activity kicked off in different direction.  The professional networking focus of LinkedIn, and the easy to use and flexible twitter.  I can see that online, my professional life is far more prolific - that’s my unconscious choice.  I see no benefit "revealing" myself online, because as a communication medium, it is very susceptible to misunderstanding and misinterpretation.  And a very ready bigotry and hysteria.  The web is still young and so are we.  Asides from ecommerce, and email - the web has remained largely uneventful of true innovation, only marketing/sales pitches. True innovation has come from ideas to utilise the basic web principles, and provide some kind of service. Fantastically simple ideas like taskrabbit.com took an already tried and tested idea of selling home and office type services.  Yo Butler simply took exactly the same concept (and site template!) and focused on household services.  Simple effective uses of the web. The web increases your reach, it doesn't provide magic solutions. As much as Facebook want you to think they are important, it's only important if relevant for you. WARNING: Does contain some offensive material ... and I know you are now more likely to watch [youtube]http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6GtZ3sj-Zxw[/youtube]