title: It's not like the good old QA days ...
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/10125/its-not-like-the-good-old-qa-days
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 10125
created: 2013/08/08 11:21:18
created_gmt: 2013/08/08 11:21:18
comment_status: open
post_name: its-not-like-the-good-old-qa-days
status: publish
post_type: post

# It's not like the good old QA days ...

I am starting to think those of us who grumble about misuse of term "QA" (Quality Assurance) are maybe in the realms of grumpy old men/women. I now beginning to realise that yes, people use the term far too loosely without thinking it through. But more is expected of the tester these days, than simply testing - and those expectation do fall within the realm of Quality Assurance. Quality Assurance and Testing used to be distinct areas, though testing came under the overall remit of a QA manager, as it's a quality gateway task. Agile nudged towards this idea, with the concept of a team, rather than individual roles within the team. In go requirements, out comes code. Lean, coming as it does from manufacturing industry, realises constant management is not necessary, if you have the right environment to start with, be it people, tools or processes. I watched this interesting video on concept of programming anarchy, which effectively defines Lean, but also illustrates importance of having right skills in place, and more importantly understanding why those skills are important. [vimeo width="600" height="337"]http://vimeo.com/43690647[/vimeo] Reducing Agile roles to developer and customer, which is a very Lean approach in fact. The assumption that all that is needed is a customer and developer assumes both these areas have skills required, as removing management layers will expose weaknesses very quickly. Which is advantageous. While all memebers of the team do not have to be superstars, you needs gems in development and on the business side. A tester is part of the development team. The expectations modern tester include tasks traditionally associated with a QA Manager (but not all) - i.e. assisting in improvement efforts for test and development processes, developing test strategies, contributing to project reviews. This expectations is sometimes result of a deliberate Agile/Lean approach, but more than likely, assumption. Some may argue what does it matter, as long good testing happens. It does matter, as the skills are underestimated and undervalued, which applies to the testers themselves. Testing never goes away as a requirement, as any good developer knows. But it is important to be efficient about it, and be judged of value it brings to project. It is arguable that a tester is part of development team, therefore comes under umbrella of development. Never underestimate the "Butch cassidy and Sundance Kid" of the project, the developer and tester. BDD provides a good illustration. While developers can work with a BDD tool and code, in longer-term, it can become an administration headache. A tester is more than capable of managing user story and scenario, in conjunction with the business. From a tester position, it very relevant area to work in, as then development is driven by test scripts derived from users stories and scenarios. And if the tester has coding skills, they can do the code feature changes. Maybe the tester just has html and css skills, or perhaps knows how to do backend coding. Whatever level of development skill a tester has, it's a cross-functional skill that can be put to good use.