title: BDD !== Agile
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/10515/10515
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 10515
created: 2013/11/17 00:34:31
created_gmt: 2013/11/17 00:34:31
comment_status: open
post_name: 10515
status: publish
post_type: post

# BDD !== Agile

BDD (Behaviour Driven Development) does struggle a little with Agile - why? Because as slick as Agile can be, it still panders to a closure mentality, ticking check-boxes as it goes along. A user story gets closed - BDD says "a what"? BDD very deliberately uses "Feature" terminology, encouraging as it does, focused and tangible deliverables, over the sometimes more-bloated User Story format. Both still are part of delivery, but in BDD, nothing is ever considered "Closed", simply verified at a point in time. It is why BDD is frequently mentioned in context of Lean and Kanban - two other approaches that don't fundamentally adhere to incremental closure. That is not to say BDD won't work in any environment, but it can be a battle at the administration end, i.e. the life-cycle of requirements. How many times I have heard the proclamation "we don't need to regression test, we're Agile" - missing the point that modern development approaches such as Continuous Integration (something else that doesn't recognise closure) are by nature, regression testing. Regression testing is primarily about testing integration. As new features are added, there can always be unpredictable outcomes. You can mitigate this by regular checks, and effective development planning. BDD is also in the same area -it is not about finishing, it is about maintaining a continuum, which at some point will fulfil client requirements. That does sound kinda casual, and it is a difficult sell. But the resulting product are more stable, feature-rich, and maintainable.