title: [Fill in the blank] is dead
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/9293/fill-in-the-blank-is-dead
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 9293
created: 2013/05/10 14:53:40
created_gmt: 2013/05/10 14:53:40
comment_status: closed
post_name: fill-in-the-blank-is-dead
status: publish
post_type: post

# [Fill in the blank] is dead

Next time someone tells you "testing is dead", ask them "what are you hiding?"

So who started this annoying pronouncement trend? I think we can safely blame Google ([GTAC 2011: Opening Keynote Address - Test is Dead](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X1jWe5rOu3g)).  If you watch the whole talk, it is more enlightening, and less melodramatic that the title implies.  Most notably, the talk includes key ideas around why "Test is dead".  First and foremost, the "Test" referred to in the keynote title, is referencing the role, not the actual activity.  And this does immediately throw into question, why would anyone would even think testing was dead at all.  There are two ideas in the talk, which I believe sum up the change in testing: 

  * Less people in test leadership - this has been decreasing rapidly, and the ramifications of this have been catostrohpic for the testing world.  For a few years, anyone seems to feel qualified to define what testing is, what the tester role is.
  * Tester as role, has become redundant - a fair comment.  Testers do need to become more like programmers, and developers can't afford to be so smug either.  I see this as a natural merging of the two roles.
The problem with comparing yourself to Google is plain - they have a lot more skills to hand, and you can bet your life the line between tester and developer exists, but blurred together. Not common skill set at all yet. Most modern developers don't even understand the point of a tester, especially those who have just popped out of a programming certification.  Testing has been outsourced increasingly, though there have been new challenges that arose from that approach.  Hard to manage, and hard to trust. The desperation to demote testing to non-existent activity has moved beyond tedious. The same individuals no doubt predicting the death of anything that doesn't fit their predefined parameters, or the deluded sheep that blindly follow the Google model of software development (but without the skilled resources to do so). Some even trying to reword the same phrase, in a different way. But the same message is still clear - there is no need to testers - developers and users are enough. The mantra has some basis in truth that pure testing itself is not enough to be a tester, and the same is true for developer role also. Developing and testing by numbers, is fast becoming obsolete. There is a repeated pattern in development world, of making largesse claims that other areas that contribute to the successfully project lifecycle are "dead". When you root through the arguments, largely this argument is justified down to either a new tool or approach. TDD was long used as argument against having dedicated testers, as is BDD - but if you check out any forums you will see many developers complaining about tools or approaches. And mostly not because they don't work, it's because of a personal opinion based on an indivdual's own preferred method of working. There are many developers who do not like creating unit tests, or using BDD tools such as Cucumber or Specflow, because they increase workloads. Yet these, and other tools are routinely used as justification for "testing is dead" mantras. What I read into the "testing is dead" mantra, is that i masks a defence of a project team's way of working -whether right or wrong. Testers can be end users or stakeholders - anyone except someone within the team. So why does a project team prefer stakeholder testers? A happy stakeholder can be easily pleased - a tester can not be pleased so easily. A stakeholder is not only testing, they are checking on the progress of the product. And they are doing these things with limited view of what is goijng on. Testers are embedded in the team, so have more information as to the real state of affairs. An attitude that belies the underlying problem usually within project teams that behave this way. A developer may say on the one hand that regression testing is pointless, given the Continuous Integration method of coding. But what people say doesn't necessarily reflect what is actually happenning. While the team may be aspiring to Continuous Integration way of coding, without the external view of a tester, it can exist as solely that - an asipration. A tester highlights the difference between the project team sell job, and the reality.  I have seen it so many times - a project touting various nbew tools and approaches, only to be thoroughly disappointed once I look under the project "hood".  Tools such as Specflow and Cucumber are touted frequently, but mostly languish in use after a while, down to either sheer laziness or simply lack of coherent approach to getting whole project team to use them. Stakeholders/end-users are important and useful for user acceptance testing. But to make assumptions on your stakeholders beyond user acceptance testing, to treading in a skilled area that requires far more than simple vested interest in finished product, from end-user persepctive. But that is not what this is about - it's about keeping the business out of the team, and testing is viewed as partial enemy in this respect. We are there to test, report and contribute to the project, but we do not allow ourselves the comfort of feeling that everyone outside the project team is wrong. Everyone on the team should be like a tester - questionning, learning and never making assumptions.  An Agile team member is a cross-functional resource, so are job titles relevant anymore at all?  While the role of "tester" is fast becoming obsolete, testing is an immortal task.