title: It's not a hoover, it's a vacuum cleaner
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/8596/cms
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 8596
created: 2013/03/01 16:09:51
created_gmt: 2013/03/01 16:09:51
comment_status: open
post_name: cms
status: publish
post_type: post

# It's not a hoover, it's a vacuum cleaner

A content management system, or CMS, is a web application designed to make it easy for non-technical users to add, edit and manage a website. Not only do content management systems help website users with content editing, they also take care of a lot of "behind the scenes" work such as: 

  * Automatically generate navigation elements
  * Making content searchable and indexable
  * Keeping track of users, their permissions and security settings
  * Adding widgets to website structure
  * Media Management
[youtube]http://youtu.be/TRLJ-Lie_ks?t=18s[/youtube] Though the awareness of the existence of a CMS of some kind, behind every website, there is confusion brought on by all the different ones.  The current battle of the top of the open source CMS's (WordPress and Drupal) illustrates this perfectly.  People choose  open source for some or all of the reasons below: 
  * It's  open source ("free").
  * They both have a lost of history, support, and information.
  * They are both user friendly
  * They are developer friendly (you don't need to be a hardcore coder)
The mistake made is that these two products, and many other CMS's have similar core functionality, which is to manage website content.  When someone buys into a CMS, it become "the CMS", i.e. a trap.   I chose WordPress for what I consider it's superior code, mark-up and extensibility.   And what really makes it for me is the ease of importing data, which means it can transgress most migration issues (from one CMS to another).  In development, that is very useful feature. I know WordPress is not the only one - I have worked with many, from off-the shelf monstrosities to cutting-edge open source.  So how do you pick one?  Well, I suppose the best one to choose based on two factors:- One that is most usable on either personal or business level - if the users find using a CMS stressful or difficult, there will be resistance to using it. Cost of development - you can't escape fact that at some point, maintenance of new features will be required. Don't pick a CMS developed in language that commands high pay rates. Unnecessary for most companies. In development capacity, the latter influenced my choice hugely, because of my own speciality with php and javascript. There is a lot of choice out there, and the open source world has many options.  With choice comes responsibility ;)