title: Lean Runner
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/10037/lean-runner
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 10037
created: 2013/07/18 17:36:19
created_gmt: 2013/07/18 17:36:19
comment_status: open
post_name: lean-runner
status: publish
post_type: post

# Lean Runner

I like running late at night, past 11pm. It adds a new dimension to the running, by relying more on the senses, as they become more alert at night, with primitive expectations of danger and challenge. There are less pedestrians at night in London, but still busy with cars, and more challenges to the brain and sense. Cities are less safe at night, and less predictable. You need to have ability to think ahead (if you don't want to stop moving). I see plenty of runners happy to stop at pedestrian crossings - gives them time to browse their media players. I just have DJ sets to play, so I don't have to faff around with individual tracks. The (numerous) drunks round London at night, become part of an obstacle course involving zigzagging and weaving around them, at the same time as watching for cars to surprise me by making manoeuvres with no indication. To be safe, it is best to never have any assumptions, especially on potential situations out of your periphery vision. I will deal with the confused, the dopey phone gazers, lemming pedestrians, annoying bikers with same measures. No anger or annoyance, just simply "you are part of the game". The key is to keep moving. Sometimes I have to take backward step to go forwards, as doing a bit of light on-the-spot jogging while waiting up to 2/3 minutes at pedestrian crossing unacceptable. I worked out how long I have to run, from point of pressing button on various pelican crossings. But I always quickly move on to another variation. There is no benefit from performing the same action again and again, simply because you know that works. Time to move on to the next challenge of "not stopping". Sure, I take risks crossing roads, but ensure it's a measured risk after careful analysis and planning. You have to be prepared for short bursts of speed, to navigate trouble you either run into, or foresee. And be prepared to do it again and again (who knows how many obstacles one night holds). The hour feels long, but full and ultimately more satisfying that a lollop on a work lunchtime, or gnarly run just after work. I have done it for many years, and still whenever I set up, I feel the same pleasure from combined sensations. The "loneliness" of running for me is escape, and an hour to use my body and mind to make the run more than just a measured exercise. Metaphors aplenty here, of course - and I won't insult your intelligence listing them all. The Lean way is for certain people, not all. That's what bugs me, the obsession with "it's a mindset". It is but your mind may be be there, or prepared to go there. But those among us who do like the TRUE Lean vibe, are happy to accommodate others; even help. No room for negative emotion in the workplace, even in reaction to someone else's. Even obstacles can be changed into something positive. With my running, it helps increase my sharpness of thought and agility. Not everyone can do this, or would want to. I have met plenty of runners who think I am a little on the crazy side to enjoy running about London at that time of night. Compromised vision, more danger - but some of us respond to situations like that with positivity and enjoyment, the brain working on all cylinders. Lean running ... and Kanban mind ;)