title: Project status: near as dammit
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/10985/project-status-near-as-dammit
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 10985
created: 2014/08/19 19:09:45
created_gmt: 2014/08/19 19:09:45
comment_status: open
post_name: project-status-near-as-dammit
status: publish
post_type: post

# Project status: near as dammit

Someone I know said that the British are known for not finishing anything. After initial hackles-rise (automatic, not conscious), I realised he was right. Construction a good case in point - fast in flashes, large periods dormant, and the finish usually excruciating long. Now take that principle and apply that to anything - the way companies operate, and the larger they get, the more "unfinished" everything becomes. Software projects - how many projects languished near the end to the point for so long, they went into atrophy?  It's a side of Bristishness I hadn't truly been aware of, but I can put this down more to management more than anything. The amount of lily-livered people who end up in management astounds me. People put in charge of producing something, maybe even critical, that struggle even with their own work and understanding of what they are supposed to be doing. I have been a lot ruder recently, about management and Agile. You would think after a decade, the management world should have got it by now. But no, "Agile" has commonly been used as either reason for success, or reason for failure - i.e. another excuse to use. The (now old) new ideas of centering projects around people with skills, as promoted by Agile, Scrum and all those funky methodologies, got warped into concept of centering projects around people to say the right thing at the right time. Who cares if it actually gets completed, it just a damn good idea! Who can we put in charge of it? Time to measure risk and/or potential financial returns ... High risk or low returns means it can be lumped on a more inexperienced manager. Firstly, they can suck up the mistakes - people are more forgiving of inexperienced managers. Secondly, an extremely easy scapegoat, as they will also lack experience avoiding that situation. Result! Hold on though, this seems now to be a different exercise. Being able to ride on back of a good project, with option to jump when it goes wrong. You notice the "when" not "if". This project is self-fulfilling failure already. What about the risky projects with high return? You will need a slippery eel of a manager for that one, able to negotiate their own way, with clients, and deflect negative (accurate) feedback with deftness. They will be able to use their sociopathic skills to manipulate the team atmosphere, in mistaken attempt to increase productivity. Management games is a real term - most of management is games. Games between each other, below and above. I can't help but feel there is a frat-type element still to working your way up the ladder. Essentially joining a club. So what to do with the good managers ... hmmm, they aren't any really. A good manager is not even a manager, or a (bleurgh!) faciliator. True, there are always "the buck stops here" people, but that's not the managers. Being a manager is like being in a holding pen This is why most managers play the same game, which is "how can I look better?". This ethos is nothing to do with the company, it's a self-preservation exercise. And companies have only themselves to blame, for creating a useless business strata, that obscures the people with real talent. Talent to be a manager (especially a British manager), and talent of protecting your own behind. No wonder nothing gets finished.