title: Testers should have waited
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/10973/testers-should-have-waited
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 10973
created: 2014/08/01 00:00:44
created_gmt: 2014/08/01 00:00:44
comment_status: open
post_name: testers-should-have-waited
status: publish
post_type: post

# Testers should have waited

Interesting experience this week - I am sure the integration of development and testing worlds has been acheived elsewhere, but I doubt to the same mutually beneficial level. Usually development subsumes testing (i.e. no acceptance testing). The merging of development and testing worlds, can actually happen in a good way, with the right combination of skills, people and ... process. A word unfairly despised, but simply a word describing how you would approach something. Sure, a bad process is not good, and a bad process not recognised, even worse. But no reason to avoid a word, because of bad application by inidviduals and companies.  Any transition (or learning experience) involves some kind of pain. Testers, you can run away from it to safer havens, but ultimately making your career path shorter, or even worse, at a dead-end. This is exactly the same for a developer, or in fact any roles in modern software development. Hide in the shadows at your peril. Become a developer - why, because you want to, or feel the role of tester is irrelevant. So who is there left to really be the fly in the ointment. You will find many long-term testers are more than happy to stand alone on an issue, if needs be. Validation appreciated, but never required. You know that old testing rule about having a test environment separate to development, and closer to the pace of a UAT environment? It may have been true, but if you try out one of those new-fangled approaches, that have sneaked in on the coat tails of Agile, then it never feels so false. To integrate development and QA in this way is a success in bringing two traditionally opposed roles, into the same development world. Interesting. But there is no magic without the right people. If you have people with the right blend of skills and strong personalities, they will know what to do, and consider risks and mitigations, and voice up with concerns or simply venting frustration. Like it or not, software development is an artistic endeavour, and the good people tend to have artistic temperaments. I am starting to realise why the testing world has become a bit Marie Celeste - the demands of this on a tester, if only for the predictable unpredictability of daily shifts in focus, is more than of old. In more stagnant corporations, testing can be an easy number, due to pace and lack of real accountability. It is a hotbed of "Mortgage-driven development". Manual testing demands are still out there, but less so, as there has been realisation of the true benefit of testing comes when it is teamed with development, not as a bolt-on. We need testers who find it inspiring to work within a rapid paced project, and a supportive team. Then they will find that stress doesn't. Agile transparency is an overused reference - I always think it means more, when applied within a project team. The more comfortable people feel in their working environment, the more stress and pressure they can cope with. Allowing opinions, allowing disagreements, and allowing someone else to be right ;) Never too young and never too old, to learn something new, or simply learn you are wrong. Which lead to the one thing that this environment and basics of surviving it. If you are wrong you address it, don't cover it up If someone else is right, then don't waste time fighting it Talk - we don't trust people who don't Be helpful Don't let obvious stress in others go unchecked Be a little sensitive to other's moods Accept change as the norm Always explore (and always time-box it!)