title: 100%
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/11263/100
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 11263
created: 2015/03/05 17:30:14
created_gmt: 2015/03/05 17:30:14
comment_status: closed
post_name: 100
status: publish
post_type: post

# 100%

How much QA do you need? It's an easy question with no easy answer. Those chasing 100% coverage with tests, often masks a bloat of overlapping or repeated tests. There are only so many hours in a day and if you spend all your time writing tests, you will rarely get round to reviewing tests as a whole. Continuous integration - looks great on the flowchart, but maintaining a CI server is no mean feat, especially if you are a project that changes rapidly AND radically (such as software architecture), and you are following BDD tests, which are inherently more administration. BDD (Behaviour Driven Development) could be seen cynically as rebranding of ATDD (Acceptance Test Driven development). But it more specifically pulls in product owners into the equation. Or tries to - although Gherkin (the specification language used by most BDD tools) is plain English, it is English that is applied like code, i.e. optimal and designed for easy re-use and maintenance. There will always be a small percent that will not be possible to automate, for variety of reasons. The easiest one to mention is accessibility, which does require additional manual checks to verify complete compliance. It is worth remembering that development approaches indicate direction, not implicitly suggesting they are applied dogmatically. 

> Acceptance Test Driven Development (ATDD) is a practice in which the whole team collaboratively discusses acceptance criteria, with examples, and then distills them into a set of concrete acceptance tests before development begins. [Elizabeth Hendrickson](http://testobsessed.com/2008/12/acceptance-test-driven-development-atdd-an-overview/)