title: Test a tester
link: http://jaffamonkey.com/11601/test-a-tester
author: jaffamonkey
description: 
post_id: 11601
created: 2015/06/23 18:05:45
created_gmt: 2015/06/23 18:05:45
comment_status: closed
post_name: test-a-tester
status: publish
post_type: post

# Test a tester

How to interview for a good tester is not as straightforward as imagined. Those using the **ISTQB/ISEB Foundation Certificate in Software Testing** certification, to measure competence, should be aware the exam can be taken as many times as you want, and there are numerous forums sharing tip and tricks. These are not what I would called tester forums, more like exam-scamming forums. This is not the fault of the certification itself, more down to the lack of formal testing qualifications. So it became a default. People appear to struggle with other ways to demonstrate competence quickly, other than certification (which are rarely fully checked on submission).  The multiple choice format, plus the ability to retake at will, makes the ISEB certification appealing, to those looking to fast-track. While I understand the need to get a foot-in-the-door, this the type of tester that will fit in easily to modern development environments, or perhaps have any genuine interest in testing at all. Using the ISEB Testing Foundation qualification (I should be specific here) as valid main judgement criteria, is a dangerous one. Modern testing is a multi-disciplined area, and resource requirements should be done on project-by-project basis. I have slated the certification many times, but I recognise it's personal opinion (which I still stand by). I find the terminology and constrictive process uninspiring, and misses the crux of testing, which is that is is part of development. QA has it's own role to play in ensuring quality, but that does not need to entail a generic user guide. Testers spouting ISEB rhetoric are not popular. It demonstrates a self-serving approach, by introducing obstructions, simply based on generic process. You can't do this, until this is one is done. Before this happens, all these need to be written. We need all these types of testing and they all need test plans. When should you perform negative testing ... I could fall asleep reading an ISEB exam. There is no catch-all qualification that can adequately define a good tester.  There are other ways, as with certain skills such as test automation and defining test strategies (which are easily proven/disproven), are only going to be gained on a competently run project, and as such will have demands and expectation on testing. Some people favour such question as Regex problems (some consider regular expressions, a general programming fundamental). If testers have been working on a BDD project, it is more than likely they would have been defining Features, either from user stories, bugfixes and/or from more informal requirements. If they weren't it indicates firstly, a non-BDD environment, and secondly, that they are not very proactive. These are just a few ideas - you can choose ones based on your project. Or ask the team - they probably have some idea of a good question, based on current or past team experiences.